The Sixth V, Value.
In this module,
we described the five ways which are
considered to be dimensions of big data.
Each way presented a challenging
dimension of big data namely,
size, complexity, speed,
quality, and connectedness.
Although we can list some other rays base
on the context, we prefer to list these
five s fundamental dimensions that this
big data specialization helps you work on.
However, at the heart of
the big data challenge
is turning all of the other dimensions
into truly useful business value.
The idea behind processing all
this big data in the first place
is to bring value to the problem at hand.
In week two we will explore how
to take the first steps into
starting to generate
value out of big data.
Now that we saw all the ways, let's focus
on an example of a big data challenge.
Let's imagine now that you're part
of a company called Eglence Inc.
One of the products of Eglence Inc
is a highly popular mobile game
called Catch the Pink Flamingo.
It's a multi-user game where
the users have to catch special types
of pink flamingos that randomly
pop up on the world map on their
screens based on the mission
that gets updated randomly.
The game is played by millions of
people online throughout the world.
One of the goals of the game is to form
a network of players to collectively
cover the world map with pink flamingo
sightings and compete other groups.
Users can pick their groups
based on player stats.
The game's website sends free
cool stuff to registered users.
Registration requires users to enter
demographic information such gender,
year of birth, city, highest education,
and things like that.
However, most of the users enter
inaccurate information about themselves,
just like most of us do.
To help improve the game,
the game collects realtime usage activity
data from each player and
feeds them to it's data servers.
The players of this game are
enthusiastically active on social media,
and have strong
associations with the game.
A popular Twitter hashtag for
this game is, CatchThePinkFlamingo,
which gets more than 200,000
mentions worldwide per day.
There are strong communities of
users who meet via social media and
get together to play the game.
Now, imagine yourself as the big data
solutions architect for Fun Games Inc.
There are definitely examples of all three
types of data sources in this example.
The mobile app generates data for
the analysis of user activity.
Twitter conversations of players form
a rich source of unstructured data from
people.
And the customer and
game records are examples of data
that this organization collects.
This is a challenging big data example
where all characteristics of
big data are represented.
There are high volumes of player, game and
Twitter data,
which also speaks to the variety of data.
The data streams from the mobile app,
website, and
social media in real-time, which can
be defined as high velocity data.
The quality of demographic data
users enter is not clear, and
there are networks of players which
are related to the balance of big data.